---
title: Particle Network
sidebar_position: 2
---

## Account Abstraction with Particle Network

**Particle Network** offers a streamlined, full-stack implementation of **ERC-4337** account abstraction, empowering developers to build sophisticated decentralized applications (dApps) with smart accounts. With Particle Network’s Account Abstraction SDK, developers can seamlessly create, sponsor, and execute `UserOperations`, simplifying the complexities of interacting with smart contracts.

Account abstraction allows developers to leverage advanced features such as gasless transactions, multi-sig, social recovery, and batched transactions by embedding custom logic within Ethereum accounts. Particle Network's SDK enables easy integration of these features, providing a robust infrastructure for building secure and flexible smart accounts.

At the core of Particle Network’s infrastructure is the Account Abstraction SDK, which supports end-to-end interactions between Externally Owned Accounts (EOAs) generated by MPC-TSS (Multi-Party Computation Threshold Signature Scheme) and the corresponding Smart Accounts. Whether you are using Particle Auth or integrating with external systems, Particle Network offers the tools necessary to optimize your dApp’s account management capabilities.

## Integrating Account Abstraction with Particle Network

Particle Network provides two distinct methods to integrate Account Abstraction (AA) into your dApps:

1. **[Particle Connect](https://developers.particle.network/api-reference/connect/introduction)** — Particle Connect combines Social and Web3 logins with built-in Account Abstraction support, all within a single SDK. This approach allows you to simplify user onboarding while directly incorporating AA features into your dApp.

2. **[Particle Auth](https://developers.particle.network/api-reference/auth/introduction) with [Particle AA SDK](https://developers.particle.network/api-reference/aa/introduction)** — For a more modular approach, Particle Auth enables the integration of social logins into your dApp. By pairing it with the Particle AA SDK, you can unlock the full range of Account Abstraction capabilities.

### Getting Started

To begin integrating with Particle Connect, refer to the [Quickstart Guide](https://developers.particle.network/guides/wallet-as-a-service/waas/connect/web-quickstart) available in the [Particle Network Documentation](https://developers.particle.network/landing/introduction).

Those looking to implement Particle Auth can find the relevant Quickstart Guide and repository directly in the [Kakarot Documentation](/ecosystem/sdks/particle).